Greetings, esteemed fellow practitioners! Dear fellow
practitioners, during the Buddha's Birthday celebration, how do
we handle feelings of dissatisfaction? On this day, there are
many Buddhists, and because of this large number,
unpleasant things are likely to
happen. We must
understand what constitutes dissatisfaction and
how to avoid it. Living with
dissatisfaction is
suffering, but living without it is happiness, isn't that right,
esteemed practitioners? If we don't experience dissatisfaction, are we happy? Very happy! So, as long as there is satisfaction, there will also be dissatisfaction, esteemed practitioners. As
long as there is
satisfaction, there will also be dissatisfaction. So, what does satisfaction mean
during the Buddha's Birthday celebration?
I get to be beautiful,
I get to participate in all the
programs, everyone is joyful, laughing, eating well,
dressing well, and having a joyful heart. Everyone
is smiling, talking, and greeting each other happily. Is
n't that right, esteemed practitioners? That's how
we prepare our minds—that's how we are, and
it's very joyful.  When we're together, it's so much fun, that's how it is.
So what is "unpleasant"? Unpleasant is that it's
too crowded. I want to stand in the main hall
but I can't, I have to stand
somewhere else. I want to be near the monks but I can't, I have to
stand somewhere else. It's
too sunny, too rainy, my feet are too tired from walking. Oh,
these shoes are too high, they hurt my feet. Oh,
these shoes are too low, they don't look good. Oh,
sweat is dripping down, all my makeup is ruined. So
many, so many, right, dear fellow practitioners?
Oh my god, how come the head and deputy head of the Dharma hall are so irresponsible towards me? And how is the organizing committee guiding and leading things like
this? Oh,
their props are so beautiful, mine are
n't
beautiful. So many, dear fellow practitioners, so
many troubles.
So what do we do to deal
with these troubles? In life, practicing the Dharma
must be according to circumstances. When hungry, eat; when tired, sleep.
This is a saying of King Tran Nhan Tong.
For example, the monks are very according to
circumstances. When hungry, they eat; that
means they eat whatever people offer, if they
don't offer, they don't eat. That's why
Venerable Kasyapa  You just ate some
stale porridge, right? That's right. Tired?
Sleeping under a tree is fine, sleeping in a
cemetery is fine, sleeping in an empty field is fine, right?
Right, fellow
practitioners? You can sleep anywhere, even on the edge of a rice field is
fine. That way, your mind
won't be troubled.
Applying the example of the saints,
we will behave in all circumstances, so
we won't be troubled. I came to the temple
to participate in the Buddha's ceremony because in
my heart I feel happy when the Buddha is
born. That one thought is the only one.
Don't let thoughts of eating, sleeping, or anything else control you. Don't let anything else
control you. Don't let your mind
be fixed in your greedy thoughts,
right, fellow practitioners? Then, when they
tell you to go, you go; when they tell you to sit,
you sit. As long as the ceremony is solemn, the
organizing committee will just tell you to
go, tell you to sit, you sit. Right? Is
n't that simple?
Let's learn the sutra about being near
and far from the Buddha. There were two monks who
wanted to get closer to the
Buddha. They traveled a very long distance and were very
thirsty. They saw a
puddle of water.  There were many
insects, and one monk, upholding the precepts, resolutely
refused to drink, while another insisted on
drinking to quench his thirst before meeting the Buddha.
The one who didn't drink died of thirst,
while the one who drank
survived until he
met the Buddha. Upon meeting the Buddha, they bowed and said, "
We were two,
but one died of thirst for
not drinking." The Buddha called out,
and the other monk came out. He
said, "Because you upheld the precepts, you
sacrificed your body, but you attained enlightenment and reached the
Buddha before me." Is
n't that wonderful? This monk, however,
intentionally violated the precepts, so he
came before the Buddha in his physical body but
didn't attain
enlightenment. So, with a joyful heart,
we can be happy with the Buddha's birth. Is it okay if we are
a little hungry or a little thirsty?
Because our happiness lies
in our joy at the
Buddha's birth. We wish that all
those who have a connection with us
will also have a connection with the Buddha's teachings in the future.
In that Bodhi Mind, what is there to do? Hunger?
Tiredness? Therefore, whoever preserves the Bodhi Mind will
not be troubled by any
weariness, dear fellow practitioners. They
will overcome all obstacles,
which is why the Bodhi Mind is so noble. The
Bodhi Mind helps people to be free from worries, to
know how to give, to live
in accordance with the time and purpose, to be steadfast and
unwavering. Are you happy, dear fellow practitioners? On
that day, please do not be troubled.
All Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
do not be troubled, but maintain a joyful thought regarding the
birth of the Buddha.
Otherwise, after attending the Buddha's
birthday celebration, we will not be talking about the meaning of the Buddha's birth, the benefits of the Buddha's birth, sharing joy with each other, but instead will only see worries and gossip. If we do that,
we will not benefit from this
momentous event of the three thousand
great worlds,
right, dear fellow practitioners? So, if
we want to subdue
our worries, we must know how to be mindful.
Desires arise depending on time and circumstances, therefore Right
View has Right Thinking. We
must think ahead about everything that might
happen and counteract it, preventing
afflictions from arising, my fellow practitioners.
Therefore, my esteemed fellow practitioners, you see that the mind of the
Buddha is not weary, not giving up, always
joyful in all circumstances. This is because we have
anticipated the afflictions that will arise and
counteracted them from the beginning. So
when they come, we are not afflicted, right, my esteemed fellow practitioners? That's what makes a
Buddha's disciple
superior to unawakened beings, is
n't it? That's what is called freedom
in all circumstances, my esteemed fellow practitioners.
We must be free in all
circumstances, and in every circumstance, we are
noble beings, overcoming
our own afflictions and the afflictions of others,
right? When we overcome
our own afflictions, we will overcome the
afflictions that others bring to us.
For example, we have already determined this, and
then a little further on, we have traveled
a long and tiring journey. Sitting here, we
see someone suffering and with
no place to sit...  We stand up, can we give?
Yes, we give, dear fellow practitioners,
we are all thirsty. In this way, we
have overcome our afflictions. We will invite
others to drink water before us,
without fighting or scrambling. It's the same.
We know we go to the Buddha's birthday celebration for the sake of the
Buddha's birthday, not for
food or drink. Therefore, we don't push and
shove each other to get lunch boxes or portions of food. It's
not about eating that causes afflictions and
spoils the scenery and our own minds,
right, dear fellow practitioners?
We are children and disciples of the Buddha; if we
fight and snatch food from each other,
what kind of people are we? The Buddha... In the Five Ascetic Practices in
the forest, we ate breakfast
yesterday, we ate enough yesterday, and today at noon we can't stand it anymore
and start fighting and snatching food. If we don't get any, it's
like the afflictions have
reached the heavens. The
cries of afflictions and groans have reached the
heavens. Maitreya Bodhisattva hears them and
says, "This is how it is." Maitreya Bodhisattva says, "The
beings in the heavens..." This is just a little bit of
our imagination. Today, at
Ba Vang Temple...  At the grand Buddhist ceremony
commemorating the birth of Shakyamuni Buddha, the
disciples there, burdened by worries
about eating, drinking, and resting, their cries echo
throughout the three thousand great worlds,
reaching even the highest heavens. How shameful! How
embarrassing! How
can the Bodhisattva Maitreya know that
our joy radiates throughout the three thousand
great worlds, reaching even the highest heavens?
That is the true value of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club. Do you all understand?
Okay?
So let's be considerate of each other,
invite each other to eat, let's be like celestial men and women. Come on, fellow practitioners, come
eat! Then I'll
eat later. Celestial men and women are like
that. But what about demon men and
women, fighting and causing trouble for each
other? Therefore, the heart of the Buddha
still hopes that on that day we will be like celestial men and
women, calling upon the hearts of celestial men and
women from the highest heavens to rejoice
on the day of the Buddha's birth. Is that okay,
dear fellow practitioners? That's why
we are in a position of purity.  At the source of a
pure mind, we ourselves will become pure,
right? If we bring ourselves down to a
lower state, if our minds are unwholesome, then we
immediately become lowly, right, fellow
practitioners? So let us rejoice
like the people of
Kapilavastu, rejoice like the
gods on the day of the Buddha's birth,
okay? Therefore, on that day, the mind is illuminated with perfect contemplation. I
sincerely hope that you, dear fellow
practitioners, will reap
benefits in your Bodhi mind.
If we are gods, then when a Buddha is
born,
we will make offerings. If a Buddha has attained enlightenment,
then we will invite the Buddha to turn the
Wheel of Dharma, right, dear fellow practitioners?
If a Buddha practices to achieve perfect enlightenment
under the Bodhi tree, we
will be the ones to make offerings. But if that is the case,
then we must be completely joyful, dear fellow
practitioners, completely joyful.
Therefore, during the great ceremonies of the temple,
we should have one
single thought of joy, do you understand, fellow practitioners?
That single thought of joy is very
beneficial to us for many lifetimes.
That is the way to counteract afflictions, and if...  If
we apply this method of dealing with
afflictions, we will do well at work,
we will do well in our
families,
we will do well anywhere,
because we will think about and
deal with afflictions before they
appear, right, dear fellow
practitioners? That's right, dealing with them
before they appear. In the Buddha's teachings,
there are the Four Right Efforts and the 37 Factors of Enlightenment,
preventing evil, destroying evil, and generating good, increasing
good. The way of thinking that the Lord
Han Quan just gave to you, dear fellow practitioners, is the Four Right Efforts: we
focus on unwholesome
thoughts and evil intentions in the mind before they arise, preventing them from arising, and if they have arisen, we
destroy them. Do you agree, dear fellow practitioners?
Mindfulness meditation: Listing a series of
afflictions, now that they haven't arisen
yet, we prevent them from arising, right? We destroy them
completely. Then, on that day, we give up everything, joyful and happy.
They won't arise again, right?
That's how we diligently practice the
Dharma to liberate ourselves from afflictions and
unwholesome thoughts before they arise, preventing them from arising.
What has arisen is destroyed. What has
arisen is destroyed if we are
afflicted by unwholesome thoughts? When our minds are afflicted, when afflictions arise, on the
7th or 18th day of the lunar month, let's
remember this way of thinking,
this way of meditating. We observe the mind and then
we destroy it, right? Then, when wholesome mental
states have not yet arisen, we
make them arise. That's the way to counteract
our afflictions, and then
our way of behaving. For example, when going to
sleep, if there is no one else to
sleep in, we give up our place and go somewhere
else, right? We sleep on the porch.
So, wholesome mental states that have not yet arisen are made to
arise, right, dear fellow practitioners? Wholesome mental states that have
not yet arisen are made to arise, wholesome
mental states that have already arisen are made to grow. That is the Four Right Efforts, dear fellow
practitioners, do you understand? That is the practice. No
one who attains enlightenment does not
practice the Four Right Efforts.
We must practice the Four Right Efforts to increase our minds, to
transform from ordinary to saintly.
If we do not practice the Four
Right Efforts, we will never
transform from ordinary to saintly.
Therefore, for a Buddhist disciple, everywhere
is practice. Whatever you do
is
practice, as long as afflictions are dispelled
and joy arises. We don't cling to the idea that this is my
place, this is your place, we don't
cling to who we are, and if we can do something
right according to the Dharma, that's enough, isn't it, dear fellow
practitioners? If not, we won't
escape the attachment to worldly desires. That's what I
hope you all do on
Buddha's birthday, but we all remain
mindful.
Do you understand? Mindfulness in the mind, dispelling
afflictions,
progressing on the path to
liberation. Do you all agree?
Let's give a round of applause, and
we hope that our hearts will be filled with
joy and all our work
will be brilliantly successful. Sending the
fragrance of our hearts to the Buddhas, the fragrance of our hearts
to the Bodhisattvas, those who are about to
become Buddhas in the next life. That's
why we are happiest when we can
offer our devotion to the Buddhas through
our own practice. We offer our devotion to the Buddhas.  The
Buddha must offer his devotion through
his virtuous practice; that is what truly
pleases him,
because he sees our liberation, and that is
why he rejoices.
So, remember, our actions
must be beautiful. Do you understand
this, fellow practitioners? The organizing committee will repeatedly
remind everyone that
whatever troubles they have, they should bring them home or to the Dharma
center to deal with them. No matter how much trouble they cause, if someone unintentionally does something to them, they must let go. That
day, when we see someone, we must
greet them, ask about their well-being, and be considerate.
Do you understand? Smile, greet, and invite them, that
is, invite them, and then be considerate. The
polite language that day is not using "you" and "me" (informal pronouns).
We should say, "Hey, fellow
practitioner, come here, I want to tell you something."
Remember that, esteemed practitioners?
Or "sister" or "younger sister."
Clearly, we must use
polite language. Let's learn from
today. Today, let's look at
how many people are in our Dharma center,
for example, "this sister," "this young girl," "this younger sister."  Hey,
this guy, this kid, do you understand?
For example, imagine
how many people are in our Dharma assembly. For example,
let's
imagine Hong, or the teacher, or Hong, or the teacher,
or you ...  You and I are like that at times,
but when the child is
very old, at most it's just "grandpa" and "grandpa."
But it seems like we haven't even counted
five times yet, let alone ten times.
Because if you say it out loud, you know
your heart has a problem, and you immediately turn back.
Brothers and sisters, be decent, say "
brother" and "sister," no matter how angry we are at each other,
we'll never use "you" and "me." The
mind is a little more refined. There's a special thing about this: each matter is
separate. People have different ages and social standings, but the
story isn't related
to those standings. A
story is a story,
how can you say "guy" and "
girl"? It's still "brother" and "sister,"
and the story is a story.
Therefore, the mind is more refined. I hope
we can have kind words, because
those kind words will make
our hearts less resentful, right, fellow
practitioners? For example, saying, "You
shouldn't do that, okay?" will
make our hearts gentler. "You shouldn't do that."  It's not like that, it's just that
our minds are naturally different,
right, fellow practitioners?
So let's hold firm to what
we consider to be the standard of morality,
because it's the
beauty we need to cultivate. So let's
start with
communication exercises. There's a situation
where we need to be proactive, like saying, "Excuse me, I'm busy, could you
please let me
pass a little?"
or "Excuse me, fellow practitioners, I'm in a hurry,"
or "I'm in a hurry, could you please
let me pass a little?" We
must practice using words appropriate
to the situation. If we don't
think ahead, then
due to our habits, we will speak
uncontrollably. How can a
Buddhist disciple control
all their actions? A Buddhist disciple
must control all
their actions to be a true Buddhist disciple. We are
practicing, so we will gradually learn to control
our actions until we become
saints. That is, then...  Completely
controlled behaviors, as you all understand.
Now, we must practice controlling
our behaviors. We
will practice this communication from the moment
we perform our duties on Buddha's Birthday, then we
get in the car to go to the temple. Let's all practice mindful contemplation. We
know there's a certain awkwardness, everyone. Sometimes, being too kind makes us feel embarrassed.
That's because we are unwholesome, right?
We feel embarrassed when we do kind things, but when we do
unkind things, it becomes a habit, and we
don't feel embarrassed. The
embarrassment is in our hearts.
It's not just about good or bad;
it's based on habit. If
someone has a lot of unwholesome thoughts, they have
many bad habits. With many bad habits,
when they say or do good things, they
feel embarrassed. But if someone has a lot of wholesome thoughts,
they have a habit of doing good deeds and speaking
kind words, and they feel embarrassed when they do
unwholesome things, right, fellow practitioners?
So, we shouldn't be dependent on
our emotions. We
must
maintain wisdom, knowing what to do and say, and
what not to do and not to say. Do you all
understand?  We're from the same
neighborhood, we're friends, you know me,
from tomorrow onwards we'll be like sisters, friends, you know me,
it sounds difficult, doesn't it? It's difficult,
but you have to learn, you know, you have to understand. It's
difficult, but you have to
learn, you know, and according to the Buddha, you have to learn until
you are completely pure and become a saint. And
according to Uncle Ho, you have to keep learning, keep
learning forever, right, my fellow
practitioners? So let's learn and get used to it, don't be shy about good things, right? Don't be shy about good things, learn and get used to it, create your own personality, create a good character, a mind that reflects the Han Contemplation. You have to create a way for yourself
not to listen to bad things, not to speak bad
things, and when you see good things, do them without caring about how
others judge and perceive them,
because you are not dependent on
bad people, you understand, right? We live by following the example of good people, not being dependent on
bad people. So when you're with
a crowd, even if they are bad, you still
do good things normally
without being hindered.
That's what we need to practice
because it will benefit us.  The law of cause and
effect is true in many cases, fellow practitioners.
The Buddha taught not to
befriend fools, and fools are those who don't
understand cause and effect and do unwholesome things.
Therefore, let us do good deeds with a mindful heart.
Wishing all fellow practitioners
diligence and joy
[music]
on this great Buddha's birthday.
Greetings to all fellow practitioners, and we will meet
again at the Buddha's Retreat in complete success
[music].
For
[music]